---
title		: Essential Studio for Aurelia 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for Aurelia 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform	: aurelia
---

# Essential Studio for Aurelia Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2 %} 





## Common

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}
 
* \#174965 -  The background-color of form editor controls in disabled state has been modified.
## CheckBox

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejcheckbox-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejCheckBox has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## DatePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDatePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 
  
## DateTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDateTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 
  
## ejDialog

### Features
{:#ejdialog-features}

* The Dialog provides an option to enable/disable browser scroll when we open the Modal Dialog.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdialog-breaking-changes}

* Dialog position will be calculated based on the target or containment element.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#163923 - Provided Two way binding support for `selectedRowIndices` property in Aurelia.
## ejListBox

### Features
{:#ejlistbox-features}

* Provided sorting support to automatically sort the list items in alphabetical order.
* Cascade event provided to ListBox, which will be triggered before the cascaded data is populated.
## ejListView

### Features
{:#ejlistview-features}

* Provided virtual scrolling support to load data on demand without buffering huge data, it supports both normal and continuous mode.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#171348 – Now the [`geometryType`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejmap#members:layers-geometrytype) property in Map is working fine.

## RadioButton

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejradiobutton-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejRadioButton has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## ejRTE

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejrte-breaking-changes}

* In RTE, the paragraph tag (<p></p>) will maintain instead of empty content during initial render and even after clearing the whole content.

### Features

{:#ejrte-features}

* The RTE toolbar is responsive with inline & popup mode, previously toolbar supports popup mode.
* Responsive support for dialogs and footer in RTE.
* Integration of ColorPicker in RTE font and background color tool for custom colors and option for setting transparent background for RTE content.
* Support for removing unwanted elements and styles when we copy paste content from Microsoft Word document to RTE editor.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#135948, \#145839, \#129435 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the weekend days in all views using the API `showWeekend`.
* \#173867 - Scheduler is now provided with an additional option to customize the appointment's dragging and resizing interval ranges.

## ejTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## TreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#177979 - Issue with rendering column template in TreeGrid has been fixed now.





